Add blog post for getting started with ANP (#146)
kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-api: blog/Getting Started with ANP.md

So, what is AdminNetworkPolicy and why do cluster admins need it? To answer that question, let's first consider a couple of very typical networking requirements for cluster admins:

1. There are certain traffic patterns in the cluster that, as a cluster admin, I want to always allow. For example, all namespaces should allow ingress traffic from a monitoring application in the cluster for compliance reasons, and all namespaces should allow egress toward kube-dns running in the kube-system namespace.

> 2. As a cluster admin I want to change the default security model for my cluster, so that all inter-tenant traffic (traffic between namespaces with different tenant labels) is blocked by default. Namespace owners will need to use NetworkPolicies to explicitly allow known traffic.

Author: Well I'm assuming the second use case covers BANP?

> 2. As a cluster admin I want to change the default security model for my cluster, so that all inter-tenant traffic (traffic between namespaces with different tenant labels) is blocked by default. Namespace owners will need to use NetworkPolicies to explicitly allow known traffic.

Author: Rephrased it.

> 2. As a cluster admin I want to change the default security model for my cluster, so that all inter-tenant traffic (traffic between namespaces with different tenant labels) is blocked by default. Namespace owners will need to use NetworkPolicies to explicitly allow known traffic.

Reviewer: ah so second point is BANP+tenancy?

``` yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy      # this doesn't work well
metadata:
  name: namespace-basic-allow
  namespace: {{ every namespace in the cluster }}
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  ingress:
    - from:
      - namespaceSelector:
          matchlabels:
            kubernetes.io/metadata.name: monitoring-ns
  egress:
    - to:
      - namespaceSelector:
          matchlabels:
            kubernetes.io/metadata.name: kube-system
        podSelector:
          matchlabels:
            app: kube-dns
```

> There are a couple of problems with the above approach: 1. Namespace owners can easily override the NetworkPolicy rules by modifying them directly or simply deleting the policy, since the objects are namespace-scoped and owned by the namespace; 2. Namespace can be dynamically created and terminated. Cluster admins will need to utilize some external operator/controller to ensure that each namespace currently in the cluster is replicated with such NetworkPolicy; 3. There's simply no way for cluster admins to express intents like, I want to take a default security stance on certain types of traffic, but I want to also delegate the ultimate decision to each namespace owner.

Author: Sure I'll try to re-structure it

So why does the NetworkPolicy API fail to serve these admin use cases? Short answer: it was not designed for them to begin with.

> NetworkPolicy was designed around the idea of allowing the user deploying an application to control who can and cannot reach that application. It was not intended to be used for any other use cases, and its design reflects this:

Author: These were shamelessly copied from @danwinship's comment on the original KEP btw

- It has no concept of explicit "deny" rules, because the application deployer can simply refrain from allowing the things they want to deny.
- It doesn't include priorities, or any concept of one user "outranking" another and being able to override their policies, because a given application is expected to only have policies created by a single user (the one deploying the application).

---

> Here comes AdminNetworkPolicy API to the rescue. Designed specifically for cluster admins, AdminNetworkPolicy API provides two cluster-level resources that can not only enforce in-cluster guardrails (for traffic that should always be allowed or denied), but also provide cluster default security postures that can be overridden by namespace users if needed. Follow us along with an example below, as we showcase how the AdminNetworkPolicy API achieves this, and how it works along with the current NetworkPolicy objects to provide a complete, priority-based policy enforcing mechanism inside a K8s cluster.

Author: Thanks for the reminder, fixed

With the help of the new API, admins can easily fulfill the networking requirements mentioned above, by applying the following `AdminNetworkPolicy` and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` yaml specs at the cluster level:

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: AdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: cluster-basic-allow
spec:
  priority: 5
  subject:
    namespaces: {}
  ingress:
  - action: Allow   # Allows flow #4 labeled in the diagram
    from:
    - namespaces:
        namespaceSelector:
          matchLabels:
            kubernetes.io/metadata.name: monitoring-ns
  egress:
  - action: Allow   # Allows flow #3 labeled in the diagram
    to:
    - namespaces:
        namespaceSelector:
          matchlabels:
            kubernetes.io/metadata.name: kube-system
      pods:
        podSelector:
          matchlabels:
            app: kube-dns
```

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  subject:

>     namespaces: {}

Author: Will update the example

  egress:
  - action: Allow   # Allows flow #1 labeled in the diagram
    to:
    - namespaces:
        sameLabels: tenant
  - action: Deny    # Drops flow #2 and #5 labeled in the diagram
    to:
    - namespaces:
        namespaceSelector: {}
```

The syntax for the AdminNetworkPolicy API, as you can see, is very similar to that of the current network policy API. However, to better understand how the AdminNetworkPolicy API works, there are some traits of the AdminNetworkPolicy API that we want to highlight here:

- `AdminNetworkPolicy` and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` are cluster-scoped resources. The subject of the policy can be the entire cluster namespaces, a select set of namespaces, or even select set of pods in a select set of namespaces, depending on the actual use of the policy.

> - AdminNetworkPolicy rules are enforced in a hierarchical order based on priority. `AdminNetworkPolicy` objects with a smaller numerical `priority` in its spec have higher precedence over those with a larger numerical `priority`. Furthermore, rules inside a policy are enforced in the order they are written (ingress and egress rules does not have relevant order among each other though). To avoid potential conflict in rules, we generally advise against creating multiple `AdminNetworkPolicy` objects at the same `priority`.

Author: No we do not have validation. It is due to the fact that there could be different ANPs in the cluster applied to entirely separate workloads and control distinct traffic patterns, but serves similar purposes so logically it makes sense to be created at the same priority.

> - AdminNetworkPolicy rules are enforced in a hierarchical order based on priority. `AdminNetworkPolicy` objects with a smaller numerical `priority` in its spec have higher precedence over those with a larger numerical `priority`. Furthermore, rules inside a policy are enforced in the order they are written (ingress and egress rules does not have relevant order among each other though). To avoid potential conflict in rules, we generally advise against creating multiple `AdminNetworkPolicy` objects at the same `priority`.

Reviewer: if policies at the same prio are applied to separate workloads, then they may have different priorities as well with the same effect right? Is it worth it risking undefined behaviour by allowing same priority ANPs in that case? (not related to this PR ofc, just wondering)

- AdminNetworkPolicy API does not change K8s NetworkPolicy's [isolation effect](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/#the-two-sorts-of-pod-isolation). If a pod is selected by a NetworkPolicy with egress rules, any egress traffic from the pod, if not explicitly allowed by an `AdminNetworkPolicy` rule or a NetworkPolicy rule, will be dropped due to this isolation effect and thus will not be evaluated further against `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` rules. The same applies for ingress direction traffic.

> With those characteristics of the AdminNetworkPolicy API in mind, let's take a look at how the two example policies secure cluster traffic as depicted below in a flow diagram. We have labeled a number of specific flows, for which we will take a deep dive into and see where in the policy enforcement hierarchy they matched AdminNetworkPolicy rules (if any). Note that currently there are no NetworkPolicy instances created in any namespace.

Author: Re-worded. Please see if it's better

![Diagram2](Diagram2.png)

> 1. Traffic within the two sales tenant namespaces is allowed. Firstly, no `AdminNetworkPolicy` rule matches this type of traffic. Both tenant=sales namespaces are indeed selected by the "cluster-basic-allow" `AdminNetworkPolicy`, but the flow in question is neither going to dns components nor from the monitoring namespace. Moving further down the hierarchy, no `NetworkPolicy` can possibly be matched as well since there are none of them in the cluster currently. Finally, the "default" `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` is evaluated, and this traffic flow matches the first rule of the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` egress section: for packets sent by the `app=db` pod towards the `app=web` pod, the first egress rule is matched from the perspective of namespace `s1`, since the rule dictates that for all namespaces any egress traffic going to namespaces with the same `tenant` label should be given the green light. The same logic applies for the reverse traffic.

Author: Ummm I'm not too sure I follow what you mean here. In a waterfall-like priority rule evaluation model, we would need to first check the higher priority rules and move on if they don't match, right?

> 1. Traffic within the two sales tenant namespaces is allowed. Firstly, no `AdminNetworkPolicy` rule matches this type of traffic. Both tenant=sales namespaces are indeed selected by the "cluster-basic-allow" `AdminNetworkPolicy`, but the flow in question is neither going to dns components nor from the monitoring namespace. Moving further down the hierarchy, no `NetworkPolicy` can possibly be matched as well since there are none of them in the cluster currently. Finally, the "default" `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` is evaluated, and this traffic flow matches the first rule of the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` egress section: for packets sent by the `app=db` pod towards the `app=web` pod, the first egress rule is matched from the perspective of namespace `s1`, since the rule dictates that for all namespaces any egress traffic going to namespaces with the same `tenant` label should be given the green light. The same logic applies for the reverse traffic.

Reviewer: yeah I mean since `cluster-basic-allow` is the highest priority policy, it may be easier to start with connection 3 and 4, and then you won't need `Both tenant=sales namespaces are indeed selected by the "cluster-basic-allow" AdminNetworkPolicy, but the connection in question is neither going to dns components nor from the monitoring namespace.`  for flow 1 because we have already reviewed all higher-prio policies?

3. Traffic towards `kube-dns` pods in `kube-system` from any namespace is always allowed. This is due to the fact that it matches the first egress rule defined in the "cluster-basic-allow" `AdminNetworkPolicy`. Because of that, no further rule evaluation will happen for lower precedence AdminNetworkPolicy rules, K8s NetworkPolicies or BaselineAdminNetworkPolicies.

4. Traffic from the `monitoring-ns` towards any namespace is always allowed, for similar reasons as 3.

5. Traffic from the sales tenant namespaces (or the accounting tenant namespace) towards the `monitoring-ns` is _not_ allowed, for the same reasons as 2.

---

> This looks great from the admin's perspective, but what about namespace owners/developers? What if, say, the sales team decides that they are okay with sharing data to the accounting team, but only through the web application packaged with pre-defined queries instead of the db instances? Without having to raise tickets to cluster admins for allow rule creation, in the current framework the sales team can actually define their own K8s NetworkPolicy for self-serviced declaration of the applications that they want to expose to other namespaces:

Author: Good point

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-access-to-web
  namespace: s2
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  ingress:
    - from:
      - namespaceSelector:
          matchlabels:
            kubernetes.io/metadata.name: a1
```

If the `allow-access-to-web` NetworkPolicy is created in `s2` (the AdminNetworkPolicy and BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy from the previous section still exist at the cluster level), the security posture of that namespace will change fundamentally compared the the diagram above. In particular, ingress traffic from namespace `a1` (labeled 6 in the figure below) will be able to connect to `s2` pods since it is explicitly allowed in the NetworkPolicy, which is evaluated before any `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` rules.

![Diagram3](Diagram3.png)

> On the other hand, there's a caveat that many will find surprising: traffic from `s1`, the other sales tenant namespace, will be blocked(7) when it reaches the pod in `s2`. Did we not create a baseline allow rule for each namespace in the same tenant to connect to each other? Yes we did. But as mentioned before, the AdminNetworkPolicy API does not change the behavior of NetworkPolicy objects. The `allow-access-to-web` NetworkPolicy, in this case, can be read as "all pods in s2 are isolated in the ingress direction, except for traffic from a1 which is allowed". So connections initiated from `s1` to `s2` will be dropped due to this implicit isolation effect before the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` rules are even evaluated.

Reviewer: I mean, very good point

> So, what is AdminNetworkPolicy and why do cluster admins need it? To answer that question,

Reviewer 2: Let's add a title here 

```suggestion
# Getting started with the AdminNetworkPolicy API
```

So, what is AdminNetworkPolicy and why do cluster admins need it? To answer that question,
```

achieves this, and how it works along with the current NetworkPolicy objects to provide
a complete, priority-based policy enforcing mechanism inside a K8s cluster.

![Diagram1](Diagram1.png)

Imagine we have a bare-bones cluster set up by a company's IT team, which only has a
handful of namespaces in it. The sales team owns two namespaces `s1` and `s2` (both
labeled tenant=sales), which runs web and db applications respectively. On the other
hand, the accounting team owns a single namespace `a1`, which, for demonstration purposes,
only has a single pod deployed. In addition, there is a `monitoring-ns` running an
application that needs to probe into namespaces required by compliance team. Of course
there is also `kube-system` who provides DNS services for the cluster via its `kube-dns`
pods.

With the help of the new API, admins can easily fulfill the networking requirements
mentioned above, by applying the following `AdminNetworkPolicy` and
`BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` yaml specs at the cluster level:

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: AdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: cluster-basic-allow
spec:
  priority: 5
  subject:
    namespaces: {}
  ingress:

>   - action: Allow   # Allows connection #4 labeled in the diagram

Reviewer 2: I see it's in the below diagram... yeah that confused me at first

    from:
    - namespaces:
        namespaceSelector:
          matchLabels:
            kubernetes.io/metadata.name: monitoring-ns
  egress:
  - action: Allow   # Allows connection #3 labeled in the diagram
    to:
    - namespaces:
        namespaceSelector:
          matchlabels:
            kubernetes.io/metadata.name: kube-system
      pods:
        podSelector:
          matchlabels:
            app: kube-dns
```

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  subject:
    namespaces:
      namespaceSelector:  # Selects all non-kube-system Namespaces in the cluster
        matchExpressions:
          - {key:  kubernetes.io/metadata.name, operator: NotIn, values: [kube-system]}
  egress:
  - action: Allow         # Allows connection #1 labeled in the diagram
    to:
    - namespaces:
        sameLabels: tenant
  - action: Deny          # Drops connection #2 and #5 labeled in the diagram
    to:
    - namespaces:
        namespaceSelector: {}
```

> The syntax for the AdminNetworkPolicy API, as you can see, is very similar to that of the

Reviewer 2: I think I would put this ANP overview section right at the top of the ANP bit before you introduce any of the diagrams or yamls.  It seems like a good introduction.

> current network policy API. However, to better understand how the AdminNetworkPolicy API
> works, there are some traits of the AdminNetworkPolicy API that we want to highlight here:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
current network policy API. However there are some traits of the AdminNetworkPolicy API  that are very different:
```

- `AdminNetworkPolicy` and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` are cluster-scoped resources.
  The subject of the policy can be the entire cluster namespaces, a select set of namespaces,
  or even select set of pods in a select set of namespaces, depending on the actual use of
  the policy.

- AdminNetworkPolicy rules are enforced in a hierarchical order based on priority.
  `AdminNetworkPolicy` objects with a smaller numerical `priority` in its spec have higher
  precedence over those with a larger numerical `priority`. Furthermore, rules inside a
  policy are enforced in the order they are written (ingress and egress rules does not have
  relevant order among each other though). To avoid potential conflict in rules, we generally
  advise against creating multiple `AdminNetworkPolicy` objects at the same `priority`.

- AdminNetworkPolicy rules should be interpreted as-is: pod-to-pod traffic only matches the
  rule if all criteria listed in the rule are matched. That means src and dst of the packet
  matches subject and ingress/egress peer selection, and in addition port/protocol also
  matches, if those are specified in the rule. If so, `action` of the rule makes final verdict

>   on whether the packet is allowed and dropped, skipping any further policy rule evaluations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  on whether the packet is allowed, dropped, selected to skip any further policy rule evaluations.
```

  Otherwise, traffic will continue to be matched against lower-precedence `AdminNetworkPolicy`
  rules, K8s NetworkPolicies and finally, `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` rules, until all policy
  rules are exhausted and no rule matches. At that time, Kubernetes' default networking
  requirement will apply, which states that all pods can communicate with each other without
  NAT.

> - AdminNetworkPolicy API does not change K8s NetworkPolicy's [isolation effect](

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The AdminNetworkPolicy API does not change K8s NetworkPolicy's [implicit isolation effect](
```

  https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/#the-two-sorts-of-pod-isolation).
  If a pod is selected by a NetworkPolicy with egress rules, any egress traffic from the pod,
  if not explicitly allowed by an `AdminNetworkPolicy` rule or a NetworkPolicy rule, will be
  dropped due to this isolation effect and thus will not be evaluated further against
  `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` rules. The same applies for ingress direction traffic.

> With those characteristics of the AdminNetworkPolicy API in mind, let's take a look at how the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the aforementioned characteristics of the AdminNetworkPolicy API in mind, let's take a look at how the
```

> two example policies secure cluster traffic as depicted below in a connection flow diagram. We

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
two example policies secure cluster traffic with the help of a connection flow diagram. We
```

> have labeled a number of specific connections, for which we will take a deep dive into and see
> where in the policy enforcement hierarchy they matched AdminNetworkPolicy rules (if any). Note

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
have labeled a number of specific connections, which will be described in further detail below. Note
```

that currently there are no NetworkPolicy instances created in any namespace.

![Diagram2](Diagram2.png)

> 1. Traffic within the two sales tenant namespaces is allowed. Firstly, no `AdminNetworkPolicy`
>    rule matches this type of traffic. Both tenant=sales namespaces are indeed selected by the
>    "cluster-basic-allow" `AdminNetworkPolicy`, but the connection in question is neither going
>    to dns components nor from the monitoring namespace. Moving further down the hierarchy, no
>    `NetworkPolicy` can possibly be matched as well since there are none of them in the cluster
>    currently. Finally, the "default" `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` is evaluated, and this
>    traffic flow matches the first rule of the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` egress section: for
>    packets sent by the `app=db` pod towards the `app=web` pod, the first egress rule is matched
>    from the perspective of namespace `s1`, since the rule dictates that for all namespaces any
>    egress traffic going to namespaces with the same `tenant` label should be given the green
>    light. The same logic applies for the reverse traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Traffic between the sales tenant pods is allowed.**

  Firstly, no `AdminNetworkPolicy`
   rule matches this type of traffic. Both tenant=sales namespaces are indeed selected by the
   "cluster-basic-allow" `AdminNetworkPolicy`, but the connection in question is neither going
   to dns components nor from the monitoring namespace. Moving further down the hierarchy, no
   `NetworkPolicy` can possibly be matched as well since there are none of them in the cluster
   currently. Finally, the "default" `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` is evaluated, and this
   traffic flow matches the first rule of the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` egress section: for
   packets sent by the `app=db` pod towards the `app=web` pod, the first egress rule is matched
   from the perspective of namespace `s1`, since the rule dictates that for all namespaces any
   egress traffic going to namespaces with the same `tenant` label should be given the green
   light. The same logic applies for the reverse traffic.
```

Maybe give each rule within the ANP a name as well? That might help simplify the explanation.  Also I think it'd be cool if the blub focused more so on the singe rule providing the desired network behavior. i.e This control is provided by the "allow-same-tenant" rule in the BANP. Rather than walking through each level for each number as it does get a bit confusing

   from either the sales or accounting team's perspective, this type of traffic is not steered
   towards namespaces with the same `tenant` label. Moving further down to the rules below, it
   hits the "catch all" egress rule, which essentially states that by default, no pod in any
   namespace can send any traffic to another pod in any namespace (except for the explicitly
   allowed traffic listed at a higher priority obviously).

3. Traffic towards `kube-dns` pods in `kube-system` from any namespace is always allowed. This
   is due to the fact that it matches the first egress rule defined in the "cluster-basic-allow"
   `AdminNetworkPolicy`. Because of that, no further rule evaluation will happen for lower
   precedence AdminNetworkPolicy rules, K8s NetworkPolicies or BaselineAdminNetworkPolicies.

4. Traffic from the `monitoring-ns` towards any namespace is always allowed, for similar reasons
   as 3.

5. Traffic from the sales tenant namespaces (or the accounting tenant namespace) towards the
   `monitoring-ns` is _not_ allowed, for the same reasons as 2.

---

This looks great from the admin's perspective, but what about namespace owners/developers? What

> if, say, the sales team decides that they are okay with sharing data to the accounting team, but

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if the sales team decides that they are okay with sharing data to the accounting team, but
```

only through the web application packaged with pre-defined queries instead of the db instances?

> The overridability nature of `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` makes this task a breeze.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` makes this task a breeze.
```

> Without having to raise tickets to cluster admins for allow rule creation, in the current
> framework the sales team can actually define their own K8s NetworkPolicy for self-serviced
> declaration of the applications that they want to expose to other namespaces:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the current
framework the sales team can actually define their own K8s NetworkPolicies to maintain full control over the application they want to expose to other namespaces, without having to raise tickets to cluster admins for allow rule creation:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-access-to-web
  namespace: s2
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  ingress:
    - from:
      - namespaceSelector:
          matchlabels:
            kubernetes.io/metadata.name: a1
```

If the `allow-access-to-web` NetworkPolicy is created in `s2` (the AdminNetworkPolicy and
BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy from the previous section still exist at the cluster level), the

> security posture of that namespace will change fundamentally compared the the diagram above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
security posture of that namespace will change fundamentally compared to the diagram above.
```

On the other hand, there's a caveat that many will find surprising: traffic from `s1`, the
other sales tenant namespace, will be blocked(7) when it reaches the pod in `s2`. Did we not
create a baseline allow rule for each namespace in the same tenant to connect to each other?
Yes we did. But as mentioned before, the AdminNetworkPolicy API does not change the behavior
of NetworkPolicy objects. The `allow-access-to-web` NetworkPolicy, in this case, can be read
as "all pods in s2 are isolated in the ingress direction, except for traffic from a1 which is
allowed". So connections initiated from `s1` to `s2` will be dropped due to this implicit
isolation effect before the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` rules are even evaluated.

The remedy is simple enough though: the `s2` namespace owner (presumably also owns `s1`) can
simply add an additional ingress rule to the `allow-access-to-web` NetworkPolicy to allow
traffic from `s1`. The important aspect here though, is that once a NetworkPolicy is applied
to a pod, it will control it security posture at entirety, unless a `AdminNetworkPolicy` rule
overrides it from a priority above. `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` rules are only effective in

> the absence of those policies.

Reviewer 2: Maybe have a quick wrap up paragraph with details on how to get involved in the group?

Author: Will work on this

# Getting started with the AdminNetworkPolicy API

Let's first consider a couple of very typical networking requirements for cluster admins:

1. There are certain traffic patterns in the cluster that, as a cluster admin, I want to
   always allow. For example, all namespaces should allow ingress traffic from a monitoring
   application in the cluster for compliance reasons, and all namespaces should allow egress
   toward kube-dns running in the kube-system namespace.

2. As a cluster admin I want to change the default security model for my cluster, so that
   all inter-tenant traffic (traffic between namespaces with different tenant labels) is
   blocked by default, unless it is known traffic explicitly allowed by namespace owners.

Both of the intents above however, are extremely difficult, if not impossible, to be
implemented with NetworkPolicies. For example, often developers accidentally block required
traffic (most commonly dns) when they apply NetworkPolicies. This is due to the implicit
deny nature of the NetworkPolicy semantics: pods selected by NetworkPolicies are automatically
isolated except for any ingress/egress traffic that is explicitly allowed.

> So, without any admin-facing policy APIs, to "ensure" that dns always works and monitoring

Reviewer 3: The reader may benefit from section headers

Seems like we have:
- Problem Overview
- NetPolV1 Solution and Limitations
- Improved Solution with Admin policies
- Connectivity example with AdminNetworkPolicy
- Continued example with BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy
- Takeaways & Next Steps

NetworkPolicy was designed around the idea of allowing the user deploying an application to
control who can and cannot reach that application. It was not intended to be used for any
other use cases, and its design reflects this:

- It has no concept of explicit "deny" rules, because the application deployer can simply
  refrain from allowing the things they want to deny.
- It doesn't include priorities, or any concept of one user "outranking" another and being
  able to override their policies, because a given application is expected to only have
  policies created by a single user (the one deploying the application).

---

Enter AdminNetworkPolicy API to the rescue. Designed specifically for cluster administrators,
the AdminNetworkPolicy API provides two cluster-level resources that can not only enforce
inviolable policy rules (for traffic that should always be allowed or denied), but also
provide cluster default guardrails that can be overridden by namespace users if needed.

Follow along with the example below, as we showcase how the AdminNetworkPolicy API achieves
this, and how it interoperates with NetworkPolicy objects to provide a complete,

> priority-based policy enforcing solution in a K8s cluster.

Reviewer 3: nit:
```suggestion
priority-based policy-enforcing solution in a K8s cluster.
```

- `AdminNetworkPolicy` and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` are cluster-scoped resources.
  The subject of the policy can be the entire cluster namespaces, a select set of namespaces,
  or even select set of pods in a select set of namespaces, depending on the actual use of
  the policy.

- AdminNetworkPolicy rules are enforced in a hierarchical order based on priority.
  `AdminNetworkPolicy` objects with a smaller numerical `priority` in its spec have higher
  precedence over those with a larger numerical `priority`. Furthermore, rules inside a
  policy are enforced in the order they are written (ingress and egress rules does not have
  relevant order among each other though). To avoid potential conflict in rules, we generally
  advise against creating multiple `AdminNetworkPolicy` objects at the same `priority`.

- AdminNetworkPolicy rules should be interpreted as-is: pod-to-pod traffic only matches the
  rule if all criteria listed in the rule are matched. That means src and dst of the packet
  matches subject and ingress/egress peer selection, and in addition port/protocol also
  matches, if those are specified in the rule. If so, `action` of the rule makes final verdict

>   on whether the packet is allowed, dropped, or selected to skip any further policy rule

Reviewer 3: perhaps the ability to allow/drop/skip should be the first phrase of its own bullet point? To me, that seems a critical difference since NetPolV1 rules only allow (and implicitly deny)

Author: Done
